docs/UPGRADE.md, before:

---
currentMenu: upgrade
---
UPGRADE
============

Upgrading from version 2
------------------------

Version 2 is **unsupported** and can be found here:
https://github.com/Goteo/goteo

At this point, all of this is quite experimental, use it at your own risk. 
Needless to say that you MUST have backups in case things go wrong.

There are these upgrade SQL scripts:

- `db/upgrade/upgrade-v2-to-v3.sql`
- `db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0e-to-v3.0.1.sql`
- `db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.1-to-v3.0.2.sql`
- `db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.2-to-v3.0.3.sql`

Both scripts should be applied in a MySQL console:

```bash
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-v2-to-v3.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0e-to-v3.0.1.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.1-to-v3.0.2.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.2-to-v3.0.3.sql
```

However, we haven't tested it in any production database and very likely errors will be thrown. 
Debugging info will be appreciated.

Commit message:

v3.0.5 Responsive
- Added responsive views for projects
- Added unique events class
- Tested installation scripts (zero install)
- Tested upgrading scripts
- Compatibility with old bcrypt passwords
- Many bug fixes
- Docs improved
- Added demo project on install

docs/UPGRADE.md, after:

---
currentMenu: upgrade
---
UPGRADE
============

Upgrading from version 2
------------------------

Version 2 is **unsupported** and can be found here:
https://github.com/Goteo/goteo

At this point, all of this is quite experimental, use it at your own risk.
Needless to say that you MUST have backups in case things go wrong.

The folder `db/upgrade` contains several sql script tha must be applied in the correct order:

Apply the script by using the MySQL console:

```bash
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-v2-to-v3.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0e-to-v3.0.1.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.1-to-v3.0.2.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.2-to-v3.0.3.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.4-to-v3.0.5.sql
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-from-v3.0.5-to-v3.0.6.sql
```

However, we haven't tested it in any production database and very likely errors will be thrown.
Debugging info will be appreciated.


Other upgrades
--------------

Apply this script to import the new milestones:

```bash
mysql -u your_user -p your_password < db/upgrade/upgrade-milestones.sql
```
